CPSC 3220 – Homework 2 – Group Assignment

This is your second group assignment.  One copy of the work should be submitted by one member per 
team through Canvas.

Submission Instructions

For every assignment I will instruct you how you should name your file(s).  You must adhere strictly to 
this policy, or you will receive a 0 for the assignment.  Unless instructed otherwise, you must simply 
upload your folder with the files through UTCLearn/Canvas before the due date.  Please create a 
subfolder called “hw2” for this assignment.  You may use the sample .css file included in the XAMPP 
installation.

Assignment Instructions

1) Create a file called arrayDemo.html.  This file should contain a form that has both a reset button 
and submit button.  You should have inputs for: number of rows, number of columns, minimum 
random value, and maximum random value.  These values should be passed to the file you must 
create in step 2.
2) Create a file called arrayDemo.php
3) This file should have php code embedded inside of html code such that the server will return an 
html file (dynamically created) to the browser (client).
4) Your php code should do the following
  1. Fill a 2D array with the correct number of rows and columns (from part 1) between the 
  values specified in part 1 (minimum and maximum values specified by the user).
  2. Print the values of the array in a Table
  3. Process the data in the array in the following manner. Create a 2nd table and print the following information.  Make sure to label data with proper column         headers:
- The sum of each row of data
- The average of each row of data
- The standard deviation of each row of data (https://www.mathsisfun.com/data/standard-deviation-formulas.html) (you can use an excel spreadsheet to easily calculate standard deviation to check your calculation).<br/>
> Process the data in the following manner.  Create a 3rd table and print the following 
information.  For a given row of data, print 2 rows in your table
- In the first row print the original value from your 2D array
- In the following row, print the string “positive” if the value is > 0, or the string 
“negative” if the element is < 0, or “zero” if the element == 0 
5) You must make usage of the number_format() function to limit your decimal places to 3 where 
appropriate.
6) Make sure that the html page generated by your PHP file includes a link back to arrayDemo.html
7) A screen shot of working output is shown below.  I did not require that you make the numbers 
left justified, centered, or right justified.  That is up to you.
